# CS 401 Digital Design and Computer Architecture

## FP_4: Final Processor Design Plus I/O Introduction
   
For this project you will complete your Microprocessor and (for bonus points) integrate some form of Input / Output hardware for your FPGA board and processor. The primary goal of this project is to have a working microprocessor with an interesting program running in simulation.
For bonus points demonstrate your microprocessor successfully working with some form of I/O on the FPGA board. 

## Exercise 1: Demonstration Algorithm Design
Design a non-trivial test program (similar to what you did earlier in the semester) to run on your microprocessor. You must demonstrate that this program is working correctly during simulation and that the branch / jump statements work correctly, with correct values being computed.

## Bonus Points Exercise 2: Integrate processor with an input and output device

1. Easiest form of I/O - Buttons / switches / LEDs on board the FPGA.  Make sure however, that these are external to your MIPS processor and communicate with the processor via control signals that come in/go out at the top level of the FPGA project. Thus at the very top level you should have a processor port map, input device or input signals, output device port map with output signals. 

2. Keyboard driver - This is not too bad but requires a keyboard that is compatible with PS2 keyboard signals.
   
3. VGA driver - Harder because you need a VGA display but not too hard to implement in VHDL. The difficult part is a VGA display memory that the VGA driver displays.
   
4. External RAM interface to the ram generated by Vivado's memory generator - follow the lab given previously and then integrate your processor to read / write to the RAM.
   
5. Oter input/output ports devices on the FPGA board.  Most difficult to implement of these five options.


## Final Project Presentation
Your final presentation will be either in person over discord, or by video (which I will play) during the final exam presentations.
1.	What was your original goal? What it what you ended up doing?
2.  Demo one of your programs running in simulation.
3.  What challenges did you face? How did you overcome them?
4.  Bonus Assignment: Integration of processor with external input and output to the FPGA board.

## What to Hand In as a Group in your Group Project Folder FP4
1. All the VHDL code for your project in your group project folder FP4 with working gen.sh script that will create the vivado project with a working simulation from the VHDL files/constraint/memory files in your project folder.
2. All the design documents in the project folder.
3. The final presentation document in the project folder.

## What to Hand In Individually - Final Project Individual Reflection
In your personal FP4 folder on whitgit, place a Readme.md file with the following reflection questions answered:
1.	What did you learn doing this project?
2.	What went well?
3.	What challenges did you face individually?
4.	How did your group function? What could have been improved? How will you avoid any issues in the future?

from this project, I leanrned alot about the tedius work that goes behind designing a computer, from writting a CPU,
to designing a langugae and making sure that everythign works the way it was inteneded to. Our language and processors ended up working just as we had intedned it to 
after all the work we put in. I struggled alot degbugging our code after we had finished everything as we had a lot of little mistakes that needed to be fixed.
we worked collaboratively on visual studo code liveshare which worked very well. if there would be anything I would make sure that eveyrone in the team had vivado
as only one team membe had it and we fully depended on him for that which could have been more efficient.

  
## Make sure to have a correct .gitignore for the VHDL code!


| CATEGORY |  Beginning 0%-79% | Satisfactory 80%-89% | Excellent 90%-100% |
|:--------:|:-----------:|:------------:|:----------:|
| 25 pts. Control Unit Design | Rudimentary decoder tables. | Basic decoder tables and/or basic finite state machine bubble diagram for the control unit. | Neat, well commented, complete set of decoder tables (single cycle)  or neat, well commented complete finite state machine bubble diagram and tables  (multi-cycle). |
| 25 pts. Control Unit VHDL | VHDL code for the control unit. Few comments.	Partially working VHDL code for the control unit. Satisfactory comments. | Working VHDL code for the control unit. | Excellent comments, code formatted neatly, etc. |
| 25 pts. Control Unit Test  | Simulation test bench created but not documented well or does not work properly |	Single ad-hoc test code that tests every possible instruction. |	Both an ad-hoc program AND a more advanced program that runs correctly. |
| 25 pts. Mini Presentation | Little to no content, poor presentation. | Several of the required elements for Exercise 4 | All the required elements of Exercise 4 and a good presentation.

